Operation list.md, before:

# ALU Ops 
|name|inputs| 
|-|-|
|ADD|2| 
|SUB|2| 
|UMUL|2| 
|MUL|2| 
|UDIV|2| 
|DIV|2| 
|NEG|1| 
|SHL|2| 
|ITF|1| 
|FADD|2| 
|FSUB|2| 
|FMUL|2| 
|FDIV|2| 
|FNEG|1| 
|FTI|1| 
|NOT|1| 
|AND|2| 
|OR|2| 
|NAND|2| 
|NOR|2| 
|XOR|2| 
|XNOR|2| 
|RAMREAD|1| 
|SHR|2| 
|ASHR|2| 
|ROL|2| 
|ROR|2| 
|RNG|0| 
|BCD|1| 
|DEBUG|1| 
|ROUND|2| 
|INC|1| 
|DEC|1| 
|FL1|1| 
|FH1|1| 
|FL0|1| 
|FH0|1| 
|SCI|1| 
|EVP|2| 
|ODP|2| 
|POPCNT|1| 
|POPCNT32|2| 
|FAVG|2| 
|AVG|1| 
|UMIN|2| 
|UMAX|2| 
|MIN|2| 
|MAX|2| 
|FMIN|2| 
|FMAX|2| 
|SATSUB|2| 
|BIC|2| 
|SWAP|1| 
|UCUBE|1| 
|CUBE|1| 
|FCUBE|1| 
|SATADD|2| 
|NADD|2| 
|NSUB|2| 
|NMUL|2| 
|NDIV|2| 
|SNADD|1| 
|SNSUB|1| 
|SNMUL|1| 
|SNDIV|1| 
|MOD|2| 
|USQR|1| 
|SQR|1| 
|FSQR|1| 
|UHCUBE|1| 
|HCUBE|1| 
|FHCUBE|1| 
|UGTRALU|2| 
|EQLALU|2| 
|ULESSALU|2| 
|BEEF|0| 
|GTRALU|2| 
|LESSALU|2| 
|FGTRALU|2| 
|FEQLALU|2| 
|FLESSALU|2| 
|USATMORE|2| 
|SATEQL|2| 
|USATLESS|2| 
|SATMORE|2| 
|SATLESS|2| 
|FSATMORE|2| 
|FSATEQL|2| 
|FSATLESS|2| 
|ABSDIFF|2| 
|FABSDIFF|2| 
|NEX|2| 
|NEMBED1|2| 
|NEMBED2|2| 
|NEMBED3|2| 
|NEMBED4|2| 
|COUNT|0| 
|DECD|1| 
|USQRA|2| 
|SQRA|2| 
|UCUBEA|2| 
|CUBEA|2| 
|FCUBEA|2| 
|FHCUBEA|2| 
|PRI|1| 
|MOV|1| 
|PI|0| 
|PHI|0| 
|SIN|2| 
|COS|2| 
|ASCIIIN|1| 
|LOWBYTE|1| 
|HIGHBYTE|1| 


# BLU Ops 
|name|inputs|branches| 
|-|-|-|
|UBIGR|2|yes| 
|BIE|2|yes| 
|UBIL|2|yes| 
|BIGR|2|yes| 
|BIL|2|yes| 
|FBIB|2|yes| 
|FBIL|2|yes| 
|JMP|0|yes| 
|NOP|0|no| 
|RAMWRITE|2|no| 
|BIBS|2|yes| 
|FBIE|2|yes| 
|BIBNS|2|yes| 
|PRINT|1|no| 
|CLS|0|no| 
|STIB|1|no|

Commit message:

added a small description thing to Operation list.md

Operation list.md, after:

below, is a list that i generated of all the operations. enjoy

# ALU Ops 
|name|inputs| 
|-|-|
|ADD|2| 
|SUB|2| 
|UMUL|2| 
|MUL|2| 
|UDIV|2| 
|DIV|2| 
|NEG|1| 
|SHL|2| 
|ITF|1| 
|FADD|2| 
|FSUB|2| 
|FMUL|2| 
|FDIV|2| 
|FNEG|1| 
|FTI|1| 
|NOT|1| 
|AND|2| 
|OR|2| 
|NAND|2| 
|NOR|2| 
|XOR|2| 
|XNOR|2| 
|RAMREAD|1| 
|SHR|2| 
|ASHR|2| 
|ROL|2| 
|ROR|2| 
|RNG|0| 
|BCD|1| 
|DEBUG|1| 
|ROUND|2| 
|INC|1| 
|DEC|1| 
|FL1|1| 
|FH1|1| 
|FL0|1| 
|FH0|1| 
|SCI|1| 
|EVP|2| 
|ODP|2| 
|POPCNT|1| 
|POPCNT32|2| 
|FAVG|2| 
|AVG|1| 
|UMIN|2| 
|UMAX|2| 
|MIN|2| 
|MAX|2| 
|FMIN|2| 
|FMAX|2| 
|SATSUB|2| 
|BIC|2| 
|SWAP|1| 
|UCUBE|1| 
|CUBE|1| 
|FCUBE|1| 
|SATADD|2| 
|NADD|2| 
|NSUB|2| 
|NMUL|2| 
|NDIV|2| 
|SNADD|1| 
|SNSUB|1| 
|SNMUL|1| 
|SNDIV|1| 
|MOD|2| 
|USQR|1| 
|SQR|1| 
|FSQR|1| 
|UHCUBE|1| 
|HCUBE|1| 
|FHCUBE|1| 
|UGTRALU|2| 
|EQLALU|2| 
|ULESSALU|2| 
|BEEF|0| 
|GTRALU|2| 
|LESSALU|2| 
|FGTRALU|2| 
|FEQLALU|2| 
|FLESSALU|2| 
|USATMORE|2| 
|SATEQL|2| 
|USATLESS|2| 
|SATMORE|2| 
|SATLESS|2| 
|FSATMORE|2| 
|FSATEQL|2| 
|FSATLESS|2| 
|ABSDIFF|2| 
|FABSDIFF|2| 
|NEX|2| 
|NEMBED1|2| 
|NEMBED2|2| 
|NEMBED3|2| 
|NEMBED4|2| 
|COUNT|0| 
|DECD|1| 
|USQRA|2| 
|SQRA|2| 
|UCUBEA|2| 
|CUBEA|2| 
|FCUBEA|2| 
|FHCUBEA|2| 
|PRI|1| 
|MOV|1| 
|PI|0| 
|PHI|0| 
|SIN|2| 
|COS|2| 
|ASCIIIN|1| 
|LOWBYTE|1| 
|HIGHBYTE|1| 


# BLU Ops 
|name|inputs|branches| 
|-|-|-|
|UBIGR|2|yes| 
|BIE|2|yes| 
|UBIL|2|yes| 
|BIGR|2|yes| 
|BIL|2|yes| 
|FBIB|2|yes| 
|FBIL|2|yes| 
|JMP|0|yes| 
|NOP|0|no| 
|RAMWRITE|2|no| 
|BIBS|2|yes| 
|FBIE|2|yes| 
|BIBNS|2|yes| 
|PRINT|1|no| 
|CLS|0|no| 
|STIB|1|no|
